[MUSIC]
This lecture we'll talk about
what a protocol stack is,
really define that term.
We will go into a little bit of detail,
little bit of information about
how a protocol stack is defined.
Now remember though, that in practice
certainly in this specialization,
in practice you're not gonna
be writing a protocol stack,
making a protocol stack, but
you can use a protocol stack.
So you at least would wanna know
what this term is because it gets
thrown around, right.
If you want to make a new embedded system
you say, well I need to be networked,
you know Internet, which protocol
stack am I going to use, right?
Which implementation of
the protocol stack will I use?
You need to know what that term means,
because it gets used a lot when
you're actually coding things.
You should know basically what it means.
So not all the details that I'm talking
about will be important in the long run,
but you should see it all
at once because it'll
give you a better context
about what you're using.
So OSI Layer Concept.
So the idea about taking these
protocols and making a stack,
different layers of protocol,
is that you've got these multiple layers,
different tasks, different networking
tasks that you have to handle.
These tasks are associated with
different layers of protocol stack.
And each layer is implemented
usually in software,
actually some of the lower layers
are implemented in hardware.
So some are in hardware,
some are in software.
The difference doesn't matter
too much to us right now certainly
the top layers are in software, but
the idea is that a message,
say you want to send a message okay.
So you make this message, we got our
picture up here, this message M.
M is our message, and
that's maybe just the pay load okay.
That is what the data we want to send.
So then that is basically
an input to a layer.
Let's talk about the first layer,
layer R let's say is the first layer,
the top layer.
So that goes into it and into the code,
so that code takes the message,
it makes some kind of a decision, whatever
decisions are made at that layer, and
then it puts the results of that
decision into the header of the message
producing a new message,
M prime down there, which is now bigger.
It has whatever was inside M and
it has additional header on
the outside of that, right?
So at every level every
level that happens.
So, the first level, for
instance here, let's see this
level is performing routing.
So the goal of this level is to take
a message and figure out a sequence of
machines that it will hop through
to get to its destination.
So at this level it takes a message,
it finds the route,
it says okay you need to go
through machines A, B, C, and D.
All right, that sequence.
So it can take a sequence,
that whole sequence of nodes,
put that into the header of the message,
and then output this new message, M prime.
Which is the same old message,
but now with this extra routing
message contained inside the header.
So that's the general idea, that at
every layer the code, or the hardware,
or whatever it is that's implementing the
protocol, will make some decisions like
routing information, arbitration
information, flow control information.
And then the results of that
it'll put into the header, or
some of the results,
it'll put directly into the header,
and you'll get a new message out, which
is bigger than the original one, right?
Which now has its new header data.
This is on the sending side.
So this is the idea, and
you have a stack of these layers.
So that's what they mean by protocol
stack, you have layer after layer and
they call that a stack.
Now, encapsulation is used
to mean that the protocols
they're separated from one another,
in some sense.
So, each layer,
each protocol layer is separated.
So, all these different tasks that
need to be performed, say routing.
That is mapped to a particular layer.
That is performed by the protocol
information stack at this layer and
other layers do not have to deal with it.
So it is encapsulated,
it's separating the different layers.
And the whole point of that is to
make it simpler to understand and
also to write code.
All right, so as a programmer, if you're
dealing with the layer that deals with
routing, then that's all you have to think
about, you don't have to think about flow
control because flow control is
dealt with at another layer.
So that's what encapsulation
generally means.
And a protocol stack is the implementation
of all the different layers put together.
So a transmission,
when want to send a message,
basically the messages start at
the top layer and then they go down.
So you put the messages into
the top layer protocol.
It makes its decisions, adds to
the header, passes it to the next layer,
which adds, makes some decisions,
adds to the header and
continues, until you get
to the bottom layer.
Now the bottom layer is called
the physical layer, and
at that layer it actually takes the data
and puts it on to an electrical
mechanism, a transmission mechanism,
some kind of medium.
So that means one of two things,
either wire, so
a physical layer,
it codes the data onto physical wires, or
it encodes it onto wireless broadcasts,
radio broadcasts, so one of the two.
So always at the bottom layer
there's this physical layer,
which actually transmits the signal either
by wire or through the air through radio.
Now, at the receiving end,
the message comes in.
Remember, it's sent physically, right?
So it's on wires, it's a bunch of
electrical signals on wires, or
it's sent through the radio.
So at this end, the messages go up
through the same protocol stack.
So that means when it's received, it's
received at the physical layer, right?
Because it's physical signals,
either wired or wireless.
They come in,
and then they have to get basically
recoded back to the original data.
So now at the receiving end,
these messages are going through
the protocol stack up, from bottom up.
So the opposite of what happened
on transmission happens here.
At every layer, the message gets received,
the appropriate header
information is read and used, and then the
new message that's produced is actually
smaller than the first message,
minus that header information, right?
And then it goes up to the next layer,
which takes the header information
at that layer it uses that and then
produces a new message which is smaller.
And so by the end at the top all
you have is the actual payload and
all the header information
has been stripped off.
So that what happens at
the receiving end and
it's the reverse of what happens
at the transmission side.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]